What I'm going to do is I'm going to
show you the techniques that we like to
teach for a low bar squat. So, we're
adding the quarter at the bottom. That
doesn't apply to everybody. That's the
variation of this movement. But all of
the techniques that we use for a low bar
squat will still apply here. And it's
going to benefit you if you want to
build a good squat.
Come up a little bit higher for the
second for the quarter.
That's how That's how. Good. Good go.
85 kg one and a quarter squats low bar
positions. Amanda's doing this as a
variation of her main squat. And the
idea of the quarter rep being performed
in the bottom position is to strengthen
that bottom position. So if you had a
listen to the cues that I gave her
midpoint was I told her to slow down and
come up a little bit higher for that
that quarter rep. What a lot of people
do wrong for this is they kind of like
they come down and they they bounce and
then bounce up again. That's defeating
the purpose of it. You want to slow down
that quarter repetition. Uh control
down, come to almost a complete stop and
not use momentum, not use bounce, not
use stretch reflex. Use your muscles to
stand back up a quarter of the way,
control it down again, and then drive up
out of the hole. So the first rep was
not very high. Um but then she fixed it
on the last rep. So that was set one. We
got two sets to go. Let's have a look at
some low bar techniques that you can use
straight away and improve your squat.
Starting off, grabbing the bar as close
as shoulder mobility allows. Amanda has
much better shoulder mobility than me,
so she gets to grab the bar quite close.
When I hold the bar, I'm out wide. I'm
not trying to hold it wide. That's just
as close as I can go. It's the same cue.
What that does is when you come under
the bar and place it on your back, it
allows you to increase the upper back
tension by pulling your shoulders
together. Uh, bring your hands all the
way out. Look at her upper back. She
loses tension. Now she loses tension. So
bring it in super super super close
allows you to pull your shoulder blades
back and down, which is the cues that we
like to use. Squeezing the shoulder
blades together uses these middle back
muscles which holds your midback from
folding forward. But don't just think.
So we think about pulling the elbows
back, but it's not just back. It's back
and down. The down component allows you
to contract your lats, which supports
your spine better than any of the core
muscles. So now have a look at the bar
position. This is a low bar squat. It's
sitting on the rear head of the
deltoids. Come back to a high bar. So
that's a high bar squat. That's where
you see a lot of quad focus Olympic
style squats. That's on the upper traps.
Now what we want to do is sit it on the
rear head of the deltoid. Big mistake
that a lot of people make is going too
low and it falls off that shelf. That's
no good. Now you've got no stability and
a lot of that weight is sitting on your
arms and that's too heavy on your arms
and it's going to stuff up your squat
pattern. So, make sure it's sitting on
the shelf created by the rear del. So,
you want to see those muscles popping
out underneath. The next thing we do is
do the set. Let's have a go.
Three-step walk out. One straight back,
side side, standing in her comfortable
stance. What she thinks about here is
screwing her feet into the floor. Taking
a big breath to brace. Controls that
weight down. Controls it up a quarter
down again. And drives it up to the
start point. She's looking straight
ahead the whole time. The body follows
the eyes, controls the weight down,
controls it up, controls it down, and
drives it up fast. Good. This is how you
really build strength in that bottom
position. She's not bouncing in and out
of the hole. Now, control, control,
control. Drive fast. That's a one and a
quarter squat. Nice work.
Thank you.
That's a cabbage. Now, we're going to
have a look at this same movement from a
different view. Let's have a look.
grabs the bar as close as her shoulder
mobility allows. Places the barbell on
her rear deltoids. Elbows back and
shoulder blades down from start to
finish. Looking straight ahead.
Three-step walk out. Standing in her
comfortable stance outside of hipwidth,
toes pointed very slightly outwards.
Controls the weight down. She takes a
big breath of brace. Controls it down to
the bottom position. Upper quarter down
to full depth. Drives it out of the
hole. Big breath. Controls down.
all the way down. Up above parallel is
what we're aiming for.
No bouncing, all control. It's all
muscle, no momentum. She's looking
straight ahead from start to finish.
Very important. The body follows the
eyes.
Nice work. So that's three by I just did
that and I said three. That's 3x3 on 85
kilograms. What week is that?
Week five.
So here's a bit of a a programming tip
for you. Week one, the only reason I'm
able to talk like this and not stand
behind her is because we choose
conservative weights on week one so that
she can go up on week two. On week two,
I'll probably be standing behind her and
definitely be standing behind her on
week three and week four. So that gives
room to be able to progress from next
week. What's the plan next week?
90 kilos for 3x3.
Y
it's probably going to get tough, but
also she'll be able to do it fine. Week
three, I'd say 95, that's when it's
going to get really, really tough. So
stay tuned. Follow me on Instagram.
Follow Amanda May Coaching on Instagram.